Difference between 4- and 8-connected neighbourhood implementation for the circle image.


For the 4-connected neighbourhood segmentation, there is evidently a higher amount of catchment basins compared to the 8-connected neighbourhood segmentation. In order to explain this phenomenon, focus must be given to the 'for' loop block checking for new minima. More catchment basins are a result of having more seeds and the generation of new seeds comes from the aforementioned part of the pseudocode. When the neighbourhood has size 8, there is a broader area checked around the minimum we are working on. The probability of labelling two or more adjacent minima in the same basin is larger when working with 8-connected neighbourhood. If the work is carried through a 4-connected neighbourhood, it could be the case that more (diagonally) adjacent minima are deemed different seeds and this would lead to more basins at the end.


Comments on the three further experiments:


Source of Image 1: http://www.fit.vutbr.cz/~vasicek/imagedb/

Source of Image 2: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-019-7727-9

Source of Image 3: https://www.cis.um.edu.mo/cybernetics/WCSR-L2L1/DenoisedResults.htm

The three images selected have pepper and salt noise applied onto. The remedy to carrying proper segmentation is the application of opening. The computation would have a very difficult time segmenting the image with the noise. Particularly, the noise would affect the detection of local minima a.k.a seeds yielding a big number of catchment basins resulting in over-segmentation. The images have been chosen taking into account the region growing methodology of the algorithm. This way, a further step (opening in this case) plays a major role in the final segmented image.


Statement of Contribution:


For this assignment, in addition to some utility functions from the previous assignment, Eglis implemented the algorithm by translating the introduced pseudocode into c++ code. He finished the first two experiments. This report, the third experiment including its comments, the finalisation of the Makefile and some refinements of the code was done by Kristian.